Update changelog (#5033)
typst/typst: docs/changelog.md

  - Highly reduced PDF file sizes due to better font subsetting (thanks to
    [@LaurenzV](https://github.com/LaurenzV))
  - Emoji are now exported properly in PDF
  - Text show rules now match across multiple text elements
  - Block-level equations can now break over multiple pages. This behaviour can
    be disabled via `{show math.equation: set block(breakable: false)}`
  - Fixed a bug where some fonts would not print correctly on professional
    printers
  - Fixed a long-standing bug which could cause headings to be orphaned at the
    bottom of the page

- Layout
  - Added support for multi-column floating placement and figures via
    [`place.scope`] and [`figure.scope`]
  - Added support for automatic [line numbering]($par.line) (often used in
    academic papers)
  - Added [`par.spacing`] property for configuring paragraph spacing. This
    should now be used instead of `{show par: set block(spacing: ..)}`
    (**Breaking change**)
  - Added [`block.sticky`] property which prevents a page break after a block
  - Added [`place.flush`] function which forces all floating figures to be
    placed before any further content
  - Added [`skew`] function

>   - Added `{auto}` option for [`page.header`] and [`page.footer`] which result

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Added `{auto}` option for [`page.header`] and [`page.footer`] which results
```

    in an automatic header/footer based on the numbering (which was previously
    inaccessible after a change)
  - Added `gap` and `justify` parameters to [`repeat`] function
  - Added `width` and `height` parameters to the [`measure`] function to define
    the space in which the content should be measured. Especially useful in
    combination with [`layout`].

>   - The height of a `block`, `image`, `rect`, `square`, `ellipse`, and `circle`

Reviewer: I would use “or” here:

```suggestion
  - The height of a `block`, `image`, `rect`, `square`, `ellipse`, or `circle`
```

    can now be specified in [fractional units]($fraction)
  - The [`scale`] function now supports non-relative lengths for `x` and `y`.
    This way an element of unknown size can be scaled to a fixed size.
  - Fixed a bug which could cause headings to be orphaned at the bottom of the
    page
  - Fixed footnotes within breakable blocks appearing on the page where the
    breakable block ends instead of at the page where the footnote marker is
  - Fixed empty pages appearing when a [context] expression wraps whole pages

>   - Fixed that `{set block(spacing: x)}` could behave differently than
>     `{set block(above: x, below: x)}`. The values of `block.above` and
>     `block.below` can now be retrieved in context expressions.

Reviewer: I would rephrase the first sentence and have a separate bullet point for the second:

```suggestion
  - Fixed `{set block(spacing: x)}` behaving differently from
    `{set block(above: x, below: x)}`.
  - The values of `block.above` and `block.below` can now be retrieved
    in context expressions.
```

    circumstances
  - New font metadata exceptions for Archivo, Kaiti SC, and Kaiti TC

- Math
  - Block-level equations can now break over multiple pages. This behaviour can
    be disabled via `{show math.equation: set block(breakable: false)}`
  - Matrix and vector sizing is now more consistent across different cell
    contents
  - Improved layout of attachments on parenthesized as well as under- or
    overlined expressions
  - Improved layout of nested attachments resulting from code like
    `[#let a0 = $a_0$; $a0^1$]`
  - Improved layout of primes close to superscripts
  - Typst now makes use of math-specific height-dependant kerning information in
    some fonts for better attachment layout
  - The `floor` and `ceil` functions in math are now callable symbols instead,
    such that `[$ floor(x) = lr(floor.l x floor.r) $]`
  - The [`mat.delim`]($math.mat.delim), [`vec.delim`]($math.vec.delim), and
  - [`cases.delim`]($math.cases.delim) parameters now allow
    any character that that is considered as a delimiter or "fence" (like a bar)
    by Unicode. The `{delim: "||"}` notation is _not_ supported anymore and

>     should be replaced by `delim: bar.double` (**Minor breaking change**)

Author: Adopted one half of it, but kept the other as-is.

  - Fixed incorrect [`here().position()`]($here) when [`place`] was used in a
    context expression
  - Fixed resolved positions of elements (in particular, headings) whose show
    rule emits an invisible element (like a state update) before a page break
  - Fixed behaviour of stepping a counter at a deeper level that its current
    state has
  - Fixed citation formatting not working in table headers and a few other
    places
  - Displaying the footnote counter will now respect the footnote numbering
    style

- Model
  - Document set rules do not need to be at the very start of the document
    anymore. The only restriction is that they must not occur inside of layout
    containers.
  - The `spacing` property of [lists]($list.spacing),
    [enumerations]($enum.spacing), and [term lists]($terms.spacing) is now also
    respected for tight lists
  - Tight lists now only attach (with tighter spacing) to preceding paragraphs,
    not arbitrary blocks
  - The [`quote`] element is now locatable (can be used in queries)
  - The bibliography heading now uses `depth` instead of `level` so that its
    level can still be configured via a show-set rule

>   - Added support more [numbering] formats: Devanagari, and Eastern Arabic, and
>     Circled Number

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Added support more [numbering] formats: Devanagari, Eastern Arabic, and
    circled numbers
```

Reviewer 2: Also support _for_ :)

  - Added [`hanging-indent`]($heading.hanging-indent) parameter to heading
    function to tweak the appearance of multi-line headings and improved default
    appearance of multi-line headings
  - Improved handling of bidirectional text in outline entry
  - Fixed that document set rules were ignored in an otherwise empty document
  - Fixed that document set rules could not be used in context expressions
  - Fixed bad interaction between `{set document}` and `{set page}`
  - Fixed `{show figure: set align(..)}`. Since the default figure alignment is
    now a show-set rule, it is not revoked by `{show figure: it => it.body}`
    anymore. (**Minor breaking change**)
  - Fixed numbering of footnote references

- Visualization

>   - Added non-zero and even-odd fill rules to [`path`] and [`polygon`]

Reviewer: Use an en-dash for “even–odd”:

```suggestion
  - Added non-zero and even–odd fill rules to [`path`] and [`polygon`]
```

Reviewer 3: Debatable. It's best if this reflects the exact parameter name which will only use a hyphen and it's more of a compound word than, what I assume you based this decision on, something that can be connected with "to" --- I can see why it could work though.

Reviewer 2: Pretty sure this wouldn't match the actual docs for the parameter. I think it's fine as is (with the added benefit of being copy-pastable). But that's just my opinion, in practice it doesn't matter too much as not many people will get this far in the changelog, as I'd say the highlights section is already enough for most :sweat_smile:

Author: The other suggestions are good, but with this one I would also rather leave it as-is.

  - Fixed color mixing and gradients for [Luma colors]($color.luma)
  - Fixed conversion from Luma to CMYK colors
  - Fixed offset gradient strokes in PNG export
  - Fixed unintended cropping of some SVGs

>   - SVGs with foreign objects now produced a warning as they will likely not

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - SVGs with foreign objects now produce a warning as they will likely not
```

    the certificate specified by `--cert` or `TYPST_CERT` could not be loaded
  - The CLI now respects the `SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH` environment variable for better
    reproducibility
  - When exporting multiple images, you can now use `{t}` (total pages), `{p}`
    (current page), and `{0p}` (zero-padded current page, same as current `{n}`)
    in the output path
  - The input and output paths now allow non-UTF-8 values
  - Times are now formatted more consistently across the CLI
  - Fixed a bug related to the `--open` flag
  - Fixed path completions for `typst` not working in zsh

- Tooling & Diagnostics
  - The "compiler" field for specifying the minimum Typst version required by a
    package now supports imprecise bounds like 0.11 instead of 0.11.0
  - Added warning when a label is ignored by Typst because no preceding
    labellable element exists
  - Added hint when trying to apply labels in code mode
  - Added hint when trying to call a standard library function that has been
    shadowed/overwritten by a local definition
  - Added hint when trying to set both the language and the region in the `lang`
    parameter

>   - Added hints when trying to compile non-Typst files (e.g. after having types

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Added hints when trying to compile non-Typst files (e.g. after having typed
```

    `servicemark` to `trademark.service` (**Breaking change**)
  - Changed codepoint: `prec.eq`, `prec.neq`, `succ.eq`, `succ.neq`, `triangle`
    from ▷ to △ (**Breaking change**)
  - Removed: `lt.curly` in favor of `prec`, `gt.curly` in favor of `succ`
    (**Breaking change**)

- Deprecations
  - [`counter.display`] without an established context
  - [`counter.final`] with a location
  - [`state.final`] with a location
  - [`state.display`]
  - [`query`] with a location as the second argument
  - [`locate`] with a callback function
  - [`measure`] with styles
  - [`style`]

- Development
  - Added `typst-kit` crate which provides useful APIs for `World` implementors
  - Added go-to-definition API in `typst-ide`
  - Added package manifest parsing APIs to `typst-syntax`
  - As the compiler is now capable of multi-threading, `World` implementations
    must satisfy `Send` and `Sync`
  - Changed signature of `World::main` to allow for the scenario where the main
    file could not be loaded
  - Removed `Tracer` in favor of `Warned<T>` and `typst::trace` function
  - The `xz2` dependency used by the self-updater is now statically linked

>   - The Dockerfile now has a `ENTRYPOINT` directive

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - The Dockerfile now has an `ENTRYPOINT` directive
```

  - Fixed accidental trailing spaces for line breaks immediately preceding an
    inline equation
  - Fixed [`text.historical-ligatures`] not working correctly
  - Fixed accidental repetition of Thai characters around line breaks in some
    circumstances
  - New font metadata exceptions for Archivo, Kaiti SC, and Kaiti TC

- Math
  - Block-level equations can now break over multiple pages. This behaviour can
    be disabled via `{show math.equation: set block(breakable: false)}`
  - Matrix and vector sizing is now more consistent across different cell
    contents
  - Improved layout of attachments on parenthesized as well as under- or
    overlined expressions
  - Improved layout of nested attachments resulting from code like
    `[#let a0 = $a_0$; $a0^1$]`
  - Improved layout of primes close to superscripts
  - Typst now makes use of math-specific height-dependant kerning information in
    some fonts for better attachment layout
  - The `floor` and `ceil` functions in math are now callable symbols instead,
    such that `[$ floor(x) = lr(floor.l x floor.r) $]`
  - The [`mat.delim`]($math.mat.delim), [`vec.delim`]($math.vec.delim), and

>   - [`cases.delim`]($math.cases.delim) parameters now allow any character that

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    [`cases.delim`]($math.cases.delim) parameters now allow any character that
```
Yeah, full of typos was certainly an exaggeration. I think you keep missing it because it's so small but you still kept the extra bullet point. When _are_ curly braces necessary btw? I thought they had to do with content vs. code mode

Author: I proofread the thing five times, but always starting at the bullet point. The one before was completely off by radar. 😅

> When are curly braces necessary btw?

When highlighting is desired, but here it would be all black anyway. I still added them for consistency. 

- `abc` -> no highlighting
- `{auto}` -> code highlighting
- `[*strong*]` -> markup highlighting 

But for example, when just linking to a function, it's pointless.

>   - [`cases.delim`]($math.cases.delim) parameters now allow any character that
>     that is considered as a delimiter or "fence" (e.g. |) by Unicode. The
>     `{delim: "||"}` notation is _not_ supported anymore and should be replaced
>     by `delim: bar.double` (**Minor breaking change**)

Reviewer 4: But it's still full of typos..?
```suggestion
    [`cases.delim`]($math.cases.delim) parameters now allow any character that
    is considered as a delimiter or "fence" (e.g. |) by Unicode. The
    `{delim: "||"}` notation is _not_ supported anymore and should be replaced
    by `{delim: bar.double}` (**Minor breaking change**)
```

Author: well, full of typos is a bit of an exaggaration. There is one typo (double "that") there, which I missed because of the multi-line diff. (I couldn't copy your suggestion because it actually also contained a new typo: `"is _no longer_ support"`.) The curly braces don't really do anything here.

    context expression
  - Fixed resolved positions of elements (in particular, headings) whose show
    rule emits an invisible element (like a state update) before a page break
  - Fixed behaviour of stepping a counter at a deeper level that its current
    state has
  - Fixed citation formatting not working in table headers and a few other
    places
  - Displaying the footnote counter will now respect the footnote numbering
    style

- Model
  - Document set rules do not need to be at the very start of the document
    anymore. The only restriction is that they must not occur inside of layout
    containers.
  - The `spacing` property of [lists]($list.spacing),
    [enumerations]($enum.spacing), and [term lists]($terms.spacing) is now also
    respected for tight lists
  - Tight lists now only attach (with tighter spacing) to preceding paragraphs,
    not arbitrary blocks
  - The [`quote`] element is now locatable (can be used in queries)
  - The bibliography heading now uses `depth` instead of `level` so that its
    level can still be configured via a show-set rule
  - Added support for more [numbering] formats: Devanagari, Eastern Arabic, and
    circled numbers

>   - Added [`hanging-indent`]($heading.hanging-indent) parameter to heading

Reviewer 3: Should this be marked as *breaking change* or *minor breaking change*?

Reviewer 4: What does it break?

Reviewer 3: > What does it break?

Headings do have a hanging-indent default value now so multi-line headings will look different. But then again, so will most documents with the new hyphenation rules so one can argue its not necessary to mention this as breaking as then, everything that could ever reflow a paragraph is breaking (plus it doesn't actually break your document, it still compiles).

Reviewer 4: Yeah I'd argue this isn't breaking anything, it's just a changing change—because Typst is so dynamic any change could be observable by code (for example casting a module into a dictionary would yield different results), so I don't think changes that merely affect aesthetics should be warned about in this case. At the end of the day, what counts as a breaking change can only be determined by what behaviour a specific document assumes to be stable
